---
layout: page
title: Homework 1
date: 2021-08-31
nav_order: 1
has_children: false
has_toc: false
parent: Homework
tag: homework 
---

## Homework 1 - Practice with matrix algebra

**_Due {{ page.date }}_**. *Remember thinking like a mathematician involving providing justification for each conclusion or formula. 
In the language of Math 300, a proof.* 

1. (*Do this individually*) On the [channel](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/channel/19%3a949d4a1e824846b8a6e5fe286db6300e%40thread.tacv2/Introductions?groupId=5ff176b0-5dbd-44cb-a436-ec0c668e897e&tenantId=4b2a4b19-d135-420e-8bb2-b1cd238998cc) in Microsoft Teams, introduce yourself. Also, tell us why you are taking the course 
and what you hope to gain from it. 

2. One of the most important matrices is the $m \times m$ _identity matrix_. We denote it by $I\_m$. It's 
entries are 
$$
    I_{i,j} =  \begin{cases} 
                    0 & \text{ if } i \neq j \\
                    1 & \text{ if } i = j 
                \end{cases}
$$
For example, the $3 \times 3$ identity matrix is 
$$
    \begin{pmatrix} 
        1 & 0 & 0 \\
        0 & 1 & 0 \\
        0 & 0 & 1 
    \end{pmatrix}
$$
Let $A$ be any $m \times n$ matrix and let $B$ be any $s \times m$ matrix. What are 
- $ I A $? 
- $ B I $? 

3. For a scalar $c$ and two integers $1 \leq l \leq m$, we let $S(l,c)\_m$ denote the the $m \times m$ 
matrix whose entries are 
$$
    \left( S(l,c)_m \right)_{i,j} = \begin{cases} 
                                        0 & \text{ if } i \neq j \\ 
                                        1 & \text{ if } i = j \neq l \\
                                        c & \text{ if } i = j = l
                                    \end{cases}
$$
For an $m \times n$ matrix $A = (a_{ij})$, give formulas for the entries of the product 
$S(l,c) A$. (Hint: Try to do the case $m = 2$ and see if you can see a pattern. Test 
$m = 3$ if you need more data.)

4. Recall the matrices $D(i,j)\_m$. Show that, for any $m \times n$ matrix $A$, the product 
$D(i,j)A$ is zero except for the i-th row which is equal to the $\mathbf{R}_j^A$, the j-th 
row of $A$. 

5. For the permutation matrices $P(i,j)\_m$, verify that the identity 
$$
    P(i,j) P(j,l) = P(i,l)
$$
is true. (If you understand the formula for the general case sufficiently well, you graduate to 
Math 702. Don't pass go.)
