---
layout: page
title: Homework 12
date: 2021-11-16
nav_order: 12
has_children: false
has_toc: false
parent: Homework
work_in_progress: false
tag: homework 
---

{% if page.work_in_progress %}
    WORK IN PROGRESS
{% endif %}

## {{ page.title }} - Determinants

1. Compute the determinant of 
$$
    \begin{pmatrix} 
        1 & -1 & 0 & 2 \\
        -2 & 1 & 1 & -1 \\
        1 & 0 & -1 & 1 \\
        0 & 2 & -1 & -1 
    \end{pmatrix}
$$
by hand using both Gaussian Elimination and a 
cofactor expansion. Feel free to check your answer using 
Sage. 

2. A matrix $A$ is called _nilpotent_ if there is some 
$l > 0$ with $A^l = 0$. What is the determinant of $A$? 

    If $\det A = 0$, is $A$ necessarily nilpotent?

3. Let $A$ be an $m \times n$ matrix with $m < n$. Show that 
if the rows of $A$ are linearly dependent then the determinant 
of any $m \times m$ matrices obtained from $A$ by deleting $n-m$ 
columns must be $0$. 

    Conclude that, if at least one of the $m \times m$ matrices 
    obtained from $A$ by deleting $n-m$ columns from $A$ has nonzero 
    determinant, then the rows of $A$ are linearly independent. 

4. Let $B$ be a $2 \times n$ matrix. Assume all the determinants of 
the $2 \times 2$ matrices obtained from $B$ by deleting all 
but $2$ rows are $0$. 
Show that one column of $B$ is a scalar multiple of another. 

    It is also true that if all $m \times m$ sub-matrices of $m \times n$
    $B$ have zero determinant then the columns of $B$ are linearly 
    dependent. 

5. A matrix $n \times n$ is _block diagonal_ if we have some 
$1 \leq n_i \leq n$ with with $\sum n_i = n$ and for each
$1 \leq i \leq s$ there are $n_i \times n_i$ matrices $A_i$ and 
$$
    A = \begin{pmatrix}
        A_1 & 0 & \cdots & 0 \\
        0 & A_2 & \cdots & 0 \\
        \vdots & \vdots & \ddots & \vdots \\
        0 & 0 & \cdots & A_s 
    \end{pmatrix}
$$
So for example, 
$$
    \begin{pmatrix} 
        1 & 2 & 0 \\
        3 & 4 & 0 \\
        0 & 0 & 5
    \end{pmatrix} 
$$
is a block diagonal matrix with a $2 \times 2$ block and a
$1 \times 1$ block. 

    Show that 
    $$
        \det A = \prod_{i=1}^s \det A_i 
    $$
